# Security Models  
## What is a Security Model  
A security model is what informs the protocol of an operation. An individual or organizations's actions will be determined by the risks or threats which they face. These risks and threats can be refered to as the 'threat model', and the security model is the response to the threat model. For example, an activist avoiding doxxing by dissorganized political advasaries (threat model) avoids honeypot websites, keeps location information hidden, and doesn't post photos of their face online (security model).  
## Security Model Tiers  
Security methods vary from person to person, and from organization to organization. Although security is and should be unique, there are trends that can be observed to create a useful tier system. This system sould not be used to inhibit the most effective and necesary aproach to security. Each security model should be developed independently of the false perception that a tier mandates strict compliance. Every security model should be deliberate and suited to its use.  
The NMSRA-Security-Guide includes numbered sections including: Introduction, Basics, Intermediate, Advanced, Tools, and Offline. Basics, Intermediate, and Advanced are designated by difficulty, however fall roughly along the Security Model Tiers. (They were not named explicetly by tiers, to deter dogmatic adherance to one tier over another.) The tiers are as follows: Civilian, Activist, and Journalist-- these groups all overlap; the naming scheme is simply for memory and approximation.  
#### Civilian  
Every individual is at least a civilian, and every individual in the information age is effected by surveilence and the threat of digital atacks. This section is about the bare essentials and simple acts that go a long way. Some of these are mandatory for any resemblance of security and privacy, while others are the first few steps that bring self-direction to the digital space. Many of these efforts will become obsolete with more advanced security, such as scrubbing and locking down social media becoming obsolete with foregoing centralized social media all together. It is clear that there are advantages to using the major social media sites, however there is little justification for irresponsible and insecure usage of those services. There are also situations in which less optimal security is unavoidable, and in such cases the best security possible will have to suffice. An example of involuntary suboptimization would be a work or school device that runs MacOS or Windows rather than GNU/Linux. These basics are vital; luckly, these basics are simple.  
#### Activist  
An activist or activist organization advocates for something. Naturally, there are counter activists, or those acting against the activist or their objective. Arising from this observation is the realization that an activist faces additional risks and threats. Regardless of the severity of an activists actions, an elevated security model is called for. While activists have an inate opposition, non-activist individuals may find themselves with an advacary of their own. Such is the case in instances of domestic abuse or stalking. To be aware of methods to further secure one's digital space or activities is a matter of pre-emptive self defence. It is adviced that everyone become familiar with and consider these measures. Especially given the fact that threat models constantly shift, and so should a security model always adapt.  
#### Journalist  
Journalists, Human Rights Defenders, whistle blowers, lawyers, and politicians will often be met with repression from mafias, governments, corporations, and millitaries. For physical safety, these cases depend on the most severe of security models. More often than not, these measures require significant effort for marginal returns. These returns can be a deciding factor in many extream threat models, however are underutilized in less than dire situations. Of course, any person or organization may deploy methods or the entire suite of advanced security measures. It is advisable to remaing informed to these methods in case the need ever arises-- rather safe than sorry.  
It should be noted, sometimes the security methods are contradictory, such as a journalist using the lime light as a deterent against extrajudicial repression, rather than attempting to remain hidden or annonymous. This serves as evidence to the claim: each security model should be deliberately tailored.  
## Using a Security Model  
With a guideline to an individual or organization's security model, there are just two considerations that must be abided by: customability and re-evaluation.  
#### Customize  
Every individual and organization is unique, so should be every security model. The NMSRA-Security-Guide should inform and not dictate any security model. Learning and adapting should be an ongoing process with no end. Perpetually customize each and every security model in an effort to balance efficiency with protection.  
#### Re-evaluation  
The universe is not static, as time passes so does the utility of a security model. A security model well customized to a situation will seize to be useful once a situation develops. To continue optimizing security and privacy it is necessary to frequently revisit the security models by which life is lived.  
## Conclusion  
Security models are inevitable, so it is best to be informed and deliberatly design each one. Furthermore, no model is immortal, as such every security model should be reconsidered often. Understanding one's security model will help maximize the efficiency of the NMSRA-Security-Guide.  
